In October 2014, in the first episode of JW Broadcasting,
the organization released its first music video entitled
The Best Life Ever.
Almost five years later, we've benefited from over 40 additional
original songs that emphasize our spiritual goals,
and that number just keeps on growing.
Since the translation of the broadcast began in May 2015,
new original songs have been simultaneously released
on a regular basis in more than 120 languages.
Perhaps you play the songs on your way to work.
Or maybe you keep them on the background while you do household chores.
Regardless, these songs have brought much joy, comfort,
and spiritual encouragement to our brothers and sisters around the world.
But how are they produced?
Join us behind the scenes to find out.
The Teaching Committee is involved in every aspect of the development
of original songs, starting with the Scriptural Foundation,
as well as the emotional feel for the original songs.
Knowing that music has the power to really motivate us,
they want to make sure that it reaches its intended purpose.
So they give direction to the music team.
The music team will review the approved song ideas,
and then assign those to composers who have been approved
from all over the world.
In fact, sometimes we'll assign two composers to work on the same song.
Perhaps there is someone working on the lyrics in England,
and somebody is working on the music or the melody in Brazil.
You bring those two together, and you have a wonderful song
that attracts many people from various cultures.
Once a musical concept is developed, a rough version is recorded
and sent to the Teaching Committee for review.
After a prayerful consideration of these original songs,
they give direction to the music and story team,
regarding the lyrics, the music itself,
as well as the visual aspects, so that they can implement the direction given.
After receiving direction from the Teaching Committee,
the song is adjusted as needed, and a final recording is made.
Musicians will be used from many different places in the world,
including recording engineers from other branches.
Typically, we'll record the background music first,
and then we'll call in a singer to record the voices
with the background music.
And then an engineer will take those two elements
and mix them together to make the final product.
Once the song is recorded and mixed, then the files are made available
for the next step in production.
The story team receives a list of approved original songs
from the Teaching Committee of the governing body.
A visual concept is developed to accompany the original song
and its final form as a music video.
Then it will be assigned to one of our local production teams
or one of our 11 international video teams.
A story board artist is assigned to work closely with the assigned team
and specifically the video director.
The governing body has mentioned how much they love
to have an international flavor to our videos.
So when the story board artist is working very closely
with the director and the team,
they're able to accommodate local culture and scenery.
These visual ideas are then made into a rough version
of the music video called an animatic.
But once they review and approve in that animatic,
then we get approval and the team can go out and actually shoot
and produce the video.
Research is provided to ensure that any biblical
or modern-day scenes are accurately portrayed.
The video team films and edits the music video
before submitting it for review.
And after any required changes are made,
the Teaching Committee gives a final approval.
Something that's unique about our productions
is how many languages we produce the original songs in.
Translating a song is very different than translating
an interview or a dramatization.
And when a person sings,
some of the sounds are not actual words.
For example, in the original song
with Jehovah We Are One,
the background vocals repeat the sound,
ah, yeah.
And in Cantonese,
this is actually a word that means grandpa.
So that translation team obtained permission
to change these vocals to another sound
that would not cause confusion.
We also prepare what are called lead sheets
or the lyrics with the musical notation
so you can learn to play the song yourself.
When a Teaching Committee receives comments
and letters from all over the world,
it really warms their hearts
knowing that these original songs
are really affecting people.
I listen to them when cooking or folding laundry.
We sing and dance during our family worship.
We really enjoy them every month.
My daughter has learned from a song
how she could show love
by writing letters
and showing hospitality to friends.
I listen to them in the car
on my way to work.
And they make me happy
and help me to enjoy my day.
These songs have really helped me.
Because when the people I work with
provoke or stumble with me,
or when my employer talks to me on kindle.
During my lunch break,
I go to the car
and I listen to the songs
and become calm,
regain happiness,
and enjoy the rest of the day.
These songs have been a real blessing to the Brotherhood.
We all look forward to receiving these original songs,
not as mere entertainment,
but as another opportunity
to build up our faith.
Help motivate us to focus on spiritual goals
and strengthen our determination
to be loyal to Jehovah.